doc/src/editing.md, before:

# Editing data in a PostgreSQL table

![Screenshot table](img/screenshot-table.png)

A table buffer shows some metainformation on the table and its columns, then the row data in tabular form.

If the table contains a large number of rows, the contents will be **paginated**, with `Next` and
`Previous` buttons to move page by page. The number of rows in each page is determined by the
variable `pgmacs-row-limit`.

The following keys are bound when the point is located in the table: 

| Key       | Binding                                                                              |
|-----------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| RET       | Edit the value at point in the minibuffer.                                           |
| w         | Edit the value at point in a widget-based buffer.                                    |
| DEL       | Delete the row at point.                                                             |
| M-`left`  | Move to the previous column.                                                         |
| M-`right` | Move to the next column.                                                             |
| +         | Insert a new row into the current table, prompting for new values in the minibuffer. |
| i         | Insert a new row, prompting for new values in a dedicated buffer.                    |
| k         | Copy the current row.                                                                |
| y         | Paste (yank) the copied row.                                                         |
| j         | Copy the current row to the kill ring in JSON format.                                |
| <         | Move point to the first row of data.                                                 |
| >         | Move point to the last row of data.                                                  |
| <number>  | Move point to the nth column (numbering is zero-based).                              |
| e         | Open a new buffer to display the result of an SQL query.                             |
| r         | Redraw the table (does not refetch data from PostgreSQL).                            |
| n         | Next page of output (if table contents are paginated).                               |
| p         | Previous page of output (if table contents are paginated).                           |
| S         | Sort the table by the current column.                                                |
| {         | Make the current column narrower.                                                    |
| }         | Make the current column wider.                                                       |
| q         | Kill the current buffer.                                                             |


## Editing a column value

If your table has a primary key, you can edit the contents of the table. To modify a value, move the
cursor to the relevant column and type `RET`. This will prompt you for the new value, and update the
row to the value you specified (it sends PostgreSQL an SQL command similar to `UPDATE table_name SET
column_name to X WHERE pk_col = the_value`).

Note that PGmacs tells you the column type when prompting for the new value. You must specify a
value in the format accepted by PostgreSQL for that type.



## Inserting, copying and deleting rows

To insert a new row into a table, press `+` in the table buffer. You will be prompted for the values
of each column for which a default value is not specified (in the minibuffer), then the new row will
be inserted. You can also insert a new row by entering new values in a widget-based buffer by
pressing `i` (this may be more convenient if the table contains many rows, or the values to enter
are very long).

To delete the row at point, press `<delete>` or `<backspace>` in a table buffer and confirm. Please
note that this deletes the current row in the PostgreSQL database, as well as in the Emacs buffer.

To copy/paste rows, press `k` to copy the row to the PGmacs kill buffer (this only copies, without
deleting the row), then `y` to insert a new row with the same values. Any columns that have a
default value specified (for example, primary key rows that pull a value from an integer sequence,
or are specified as `SERIAL`, or timestap values that default to `now`) will be inserted with a new
generated value, rather than the value in the copied row.

All updates, insertions and deletions are immediately made on the PostgreSQL server by sending it
the appropriate SQL `UPDATE TABLE`, `DELETE FROM` or `INSERT INTO` commands. 



## Viewing output from an SQL query

You can also view (but not edit!) the output from an SQL query you enter. Type `e` in a PGmacs
buffer, which will prompt you for an SQL query, then display the output in a dedicated temporary
buffer. Type `q` to kill the temporary buffer.

![Screenshot table](img/screenshot-sql-query.png)

Commit message:

New keybinding in row-list buffer: v displays value at point in new buffer

doc/src/editing.md, after:

# Editing data in a PostgreSQL table

![Screenshot table](img/screenshot-table.png)

A table buffer shows some metainformation on the table and its columns, then the row data in tabular form.

If the table contains a large number of rows, the contents will be **paginated**, with `Next` and
`Previous` buttons to move page by page. The number of rows in each page is determined by the
variable `pgmacs-row-limit`.

The following keys are bound when the point is located in the table: 

| Key       | Binding                                                                              |
|-----------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| v         | Display the value at point in a dedicated buffer.                                    |
| RET       | Edit the value at point in the minibuffer.                                           |
| w         | Edit the value at point in a widget-based buffer.                                    |
| DEL       | Delete the row at point.                                                             |
| M-`left`  | Move to the previous column.                                                         |
| M-`right` | Move to the next column.                                                             |
| +         | Insert a new row into the current table, prompting for new values in the minibuffer. |
| i         | Insert a new row, prompting for new values in a dedicated buffer.                    |
| k         | Copy the current row.                                                                |
| y         | Paste (yank) the copied row.                                                         |
| j         | Copy the current row to the kill ring in JSON format.                                |
| <         | Move point to the first row of data.                                                 |
| >         | Move point to the last row of data.                                                  |
| <number>  | Move point to the nth column (numbering is zero-based).                              |
| e         | Open a new buffer to display the result of an SQL query.                             |
| r         | Redraw the table (does not refetch data from PostgreSQL).                            |
| n         | Next page of output (if table contents are paginated).                               |
| p         | Previous page of output (if table contents are paginated).                           |
| S         | Sort the table by the current column.                                                |
| {         | Make the current column narrower.                                                    |
| }         | Make the current column wider.                                                       |
| q         | Kill the current buffer.                                                             |


## Editing a column value

If your table has a primary key, you can edit the contents of the table. To modify a value, move the
cursor to the relevant column and type `RET`. This will prompt you for the new value, and update the
row to the value you specified (it sends PostgreSQL an SQL command similar to `UPDATE table_name SET
column_name to X WHERE pk_col = the_value`).

Note that PGmacs tells you the column type when prompting for the new value. You must specify a
value in the format accepted by PostgreSQL for that type.



## Inserting, copying and deleting rows

To insert a new row into a table, press `+` in the table buffer. You will be prompted for the values
of each column for which a default value is not specified (in the minibuffer), then the new row will
be inserted. You can also insert a new row by entering new values in a widget-based buffer by
pressing `i` (this may be more convenient if the table contains many rows, or the values to enter
are very long).

To delete the row at point, press `<delete>` or `<backspace>` in a table buffer and confirm. Please
note that this deletes the current row in the PostgreSQL database, as well as in the Emacs buffer.

To copy/paste rows, press `k` to copy the row to the PGmacs kill buffer (this only copies, without
deleting the row), then `y` to insert a new row with the same values. Any columns that have a
default value specified (for example, primary key rows that pull a value from an integer sequence,
or are specified as `SERIAL`, or timestap values that default to `now`) will be inserted with a new
generated value, rather than the value in the copied row.

All updates, insertions and deletions are immediately made on the PostgreSQL server by sending it
the appropriate SQL `UPDATE TABLE`, `DELETE FROM` or `INSERT INTO` commands. 



## Viewing output from an SQL query

You can also view (but not edit!) the output from an SQL query you enter. Type `e` in a PGmacs
buffer, which will prompt you for an SQL query, then display the output in a dedicated temporary
buffer. Type `q` to kill the temporary buffer.

![Screenshot table](img/screenshot-sql-query.png)
